[Music]
we are constantly asked for our opinions
which team do you think will win the
Super Bowl who wore it better on the red
carpet who are you gonna vote for fir
Manor public opinion polls are
everywhere important decision-makers in
American government have long relied on
public opinion polls throughout
elections and important legislation the
problem is public opinion isn't easy to
track and oftentimes isn't even right in
1948 the Chicago Daily Tribune ran a
now-famous headline Dewey defeats Truman
they cried in big bold black and white
letters the problem is that do we hadn't
defeated Truman the Tribune had relied
on polls to come to their conclusion
whoops this happens all the time because
public opinion polls are either
inaccurate or misleading so why are they
wrong and why do we keep using them
first let's start with an important term
sample a sample is the group of people
that respond to questions during a
public opinion poll a polls quality rest
largely on its sample and the sample can
be bet in a few key ways it can be too
small too narrow or the pool itself can
be too difficult polls that are too
small or bad for obvious reasons while
you can't possibly ask every single
person in America for their opinion the
more people you ask the more accurate
your prediction polls that are too
narrow that only ask a certain type of
person the questions are bad to consider
a poll about whether or not the potato
is the best vegetable in America if you
only asked people in Idaho where the
state food is the potato chances are
that you would get a much different
answer than if you ask people in the
state of new mexico where the state
vegetable is beans getting the right
kind of diversity in your sample means
making sure that your sample has a range
of ages races genders and geographic
regions just to name a few
finally polls that are too hard can't
tell you much either if you're asking
people for their opinions on things
about which they have no prior knowledge
the results will be pointless
you're better off shaking a magic 8-ball
it's not just the people you're asking
that can cause bias though the person
doing the asking is part of the problem
too
that's called interviewer bias
interviewer bias is all about the effect
that the person asking the questions has
on the sample humans generally don't
like confrontation people worry that
their answers may make them look bad
therefore we find that people tend to
give socially desirable responses not
necessarily their honest opinions
because they don't want to come across
as heartless racist or bigoted and the
way we word our questions matters too
when polls purposely sway the answers
one way or the other it's called a push
poll because it pushes people to answer
a certain way would you vote for
candidate Smith is a perfectly normal
question would you vote for candidate
Smith if you knew that he Rob's senior
citizens is a push poll
so if polls are open to all sorts of
manipulation and inaccuracies why are
they still so prevalent despite their
flaws public opinion polls provide us
with some sense of the thoughts and
moods of large groups of people they
offer politicians the chance to pass
legislation they think a majority of
Americans will support they help
fashionistas on TV know which star wore
the dress better on the red carpet
finally they make us the people who get
polled feel as though our voice has been
heard so next time you get a phone call
asking your opinion
or if you see a full online take some
time to think about who is asking and
why they're asking then take that poll
and as results with a grain of salt or a
potato
[Music]